---
title: "Corpus Selection"
date: 2021-01-19T17:56:51-04:00
draft: false
---

For this exercise, I chose to work with some data that will factor into the corpus I’m using to train GPT-2 for my Master’s project. The data is an excerpt from a book of poetry, Paul Eluard’s Letters to Gala. This text has a table at the beginning of it of the chronology of Eluard and Gala’s lives. Since the text is not in the public domain, I used scans from a copy of the text and ran them through Tesseract, an OCR software. As the images were very clean, the data only needed minimal cleaning up. Tesseract did a poor job with the table so I had to fix that output up a bit. I turned the table into a .csv file to put into Palladio (and then realized my error and separated the values with tabs instead of commas). 

Unfortunately, due to the nature of the text I chose, I wasn’t able to glean a lot of insights from Voyant or Palladio. This is the only text I have to work with that has a table in it, but it’s a fairly short excerpt so Voyant wasn’t able to tell me much. It was interesting to see the timeline that Palladio had put out to quickly see when Eluard and Gala were the most active. Aside from Gala and Eluard, the most frequently used terms for the entire excerpt were eyes, like, day, night, love, and death. I have yet to digitize the other Eluard collections I have, but it will be interesting to compare Letters to Gala’s most-used terms to his other poems. I wonder if his poems for his (ex-)wife Gala used more romantic language than his other poems. The fact that “like” appears so often tells me that he may have used a lot of similes. I am not yet familiar enough with his style to say whether or not this is characteristic of his poetry. 

I am working with two separate corpora for copyright and size purposes. The first, smaller corpus will be referred to as Corpus S (for Surrealism) and the second, larger corpus will be referred to as Corpus AI (for Artificial Intelligence). 

Corpus S is something I’ve been assembling for a while now. It includes a variety of novels, poems, essays, and a screenplay. My intention for this is to train GPT-2 (an AI from OpenAI) on this corpus to generate Surrealist (or otherwise interesting) text. I have very specific parameters for this corpus and have pieced together a variety of snippets and complete texts. All of the original texts were written in the early 20th century (between 1915-1945) but I am using English translations of French originals. My main struggle with this corpus is getting all of the scans processed and organized and getting nice, clean OCR on everything. (See spreadsheet for the status of this project.) Currently, I have about 103,000 words cleaned up in plain text and ready to be manipulated. I am not able to offer it publicly due to copyright concerns and my relationship with the library that allowed me to use these texts. So far in this corpus, I have the following texts (as well as snippets of poetry that I could find for free online):
+	Paris Peasant by Louis Aragon
+	Nadja by André Breton
+	Excerpts from Letters to Gala by Paul Eluard
+	Shadows and Sun by Paul Eluard 
+	The screenplay of Un Chien Andalou by Luis Buñuel and Salvador Dalí
+	Manifesto of Surrealism by André Breton 

Corpus AI is something I only began to gather this week. This corpus currently consists of just under 220,000 words of GPT-2 generated text. Since I am working with GPT-2 to produce fiction/poetry, I am interested in other works of fiction/poetry produced by people using GPT-2. My biggest source for this is NaNoGenMo (National Novel Generation Month) as these texts are published on the Web and easy to grab. I’ve been able to clean up a few of them as well as some poems generated by GPT-2. I intend to gather more, and am open to looking at texts generated by other AIs or machine learning methods. I think it would be interesting to compare this corpus with the text that I generate with Saige, the model of GPT-2 that I trained on Corpus S. It might be interesting to try to gauge how “surreal” the text I generate is comparatively, though I’m not exactly sure how I would go about doing that right now. Currently, this corpus contains six novels and two poems. 