---
title: "Data Horizons"
date: 2021-04-21T17:56:51-04:00
draft: false
---

The time has come for me to close a chapter of my life. With this post, I have finished--at least, for now--my career in academia and I'm headed off to do new and exciting things.

While I intend to continue with SAIGE in some way in the future, it is unlikely that I will return to this project. Still, if I decide to continue my work, there are so many places I could go. I have come absolutely no where near close to gathering all of the texts that have been publically published for free that have been generated by GPT-2. Corpus AI represents a fraction--maybe even a fraction of a fraction--of what it could be, and I encourage anyone who is interested in better understanding AI and GPT-2 to take the raw materials I've posted [here](https://cm21.netlify.app/post/week12/) and run with them. You may also choose to use the samples generated by SAIGE, a model of GPT-2, available [here](https://saige.netlify.app/). The imminent release of GPT-3 presents yet another corpus which is constantly being added to that could be gathered by an ambitious researcher. There are, of course, so many other AI out there that could also undergo a similar data gathering project. 

Even though I am not able to publish Corpus S due to copyright concerns, this is the corpus I am most excited about and most likely to expand upon at a later date. There are still whole folders on my hard drive of Surrealist texts that I have yet to run through OCR and lots of OCR that I never got around to cleaning. (I could also probably do a thorough scrub of what has been cleaned.) If I were ever given the time and resources, I would love to continue to grow this corpus and to retrain SAIGE. It would also be nice if I could learn French as that would make my entire endeavor more accessible/public and perhaps more accurate, too, but who knows if that is where life will lead me.

For now, I am ending my progress on this project, but there is still so much work left to be done.