---
title: "Website Hosting"
date: 2021-03-15T17:56:51-04:00
draft: false
---

This week I focused on finally launching my site. I could not figure out how to connect my Jekyll site to my GitHub pages site, so I switched instead to Hugo. After many hours of trial and error, I finally figured out how to connect Hugo to Netlify via GitHub. After successfully deploying a [site to host the samples generated by SAIGE, a model of GPT-2 trained on a corpus of Surrealist literature](https://saige.netlify.app), I applied the same technique to a site for my Comp Methods GitHub repo.

For my first attempt, I cloned a theme into a Hugo site and moved it into the GitHub repository that's part of the class repository. After hours of trial and error, I eventually abandonned the site and thought I'd start over with a new theme (since the theme I was using kept throwing me errors).

I duplicated my Comp Meth repository and made it public, taking out any copyright-restricted files. I created a new Hugo site with a different theme. After more trial and error (I got the same error but figured out that I had to submodule the theme into the GitHub repo in a very specific way), I finally ended up with a successful site. I am populating it now. All of my time for the above will de catalogued in the Week 9 write-up, since I am still recovering from my inability to complete Week 9's assignment. 

My research revolves around Surrealism and Gala Dali has always been my favorite member of this group. I went to the Wikidata Query Search and looked for members of Surrealism. I then narrowed the search to female members of the movement and noticed Gala's name was missing. I decided to navigate to her page and add her as a member of the Surrealist movement. This may be a contentious add, but I believe she deserves notoriety not just for her famous spouses/lovers but for her involvement in the movement at large. 